---
author: Conal Knight
layout: post-full
title: Dublin Pub / Bar Access Survey – 2
featimg: wheel.jpg
tags: [wheelchair accessibility, disability rights]
category: [articles]
---
This is part two of a series of articles in which I will be discussing as many bars and pubs in the Dublin area as possible and how accessible or inaccessible they are. If you haven’t already, I’d recommend reading the first article, in which I covered P.Mac’s gastropub and The Bernard Shaw.

In case you did not read the first article, here’s a breakdown of how I am ranking each bar/pub I visit, all out of 5:

1.Entrance

2. Bar 

3.Toilet Facilities 

4. Space 

5. Seating areas

6. Floor

7. Access to other floors

 

Continuing my search for accessible bars and pubs, The Lucky Duck on Aungier Street is a relatively new bar with a slightly narrow entrance, but no steps. Once inside, the bar is higher than some others, but still quite low, with stools. There is an accessible restroom at the far end of the bar that is well-kept and quite spacious.

Unfortunately, the area around the bar is quite cluttered and narrow, and while it is easily navigable for wheelchair users at off-peak hours it is far from it when the bar is at its busiest.As such, if you are a wheelchair user there is no way to be comfortably seated unless you can transfer from your chair, however if you can there are many comfortable chairs with back support throughout the bar. Fortunately, getting around this bar isn’t all bad news, as the floor is smooth wood, and easy to push a wheelchair on. There is another floor in the Lucky Duck, however there are quite a few stairs to get up to it.

Overall, the Lucky Duck ranks as follows:

Entrance: 4 / 5

Bar: 3 / 5

Toilet: 4 / 5

Space: 2 / 5

Seating: 4 / 5

Floor: 5 / 5

Other floors: 0 / 5

 

Overall: 22 / 35

 

 

Moving on to another pub, this one just down the road from The Lucky Duck, Against The Grain. This pub has a relatively wide door leading into it that should fit most wheelchairs. Once inside, the bar is one of the most accessible I have encountered so far, at a low height with low stools. The space, however, is severely lacking, and it is very narrow and hard to navigate, so much so that I have found myself constantly moving to allow others to get by, and the floor is rough and hard to wheel on in some places. Luckily, if you can transfer, the seating is quite good, with chairs at average-height tables. There is not much space downstairs in this pub, with a lot else upstairs, however there is no elevator and only steps. This proves to be more of a problem as the only restrooms in the venue are also upstairs.

Overall, Against The Grain gets scores of:

Entrance: 5 / 5

Bar: 4 / 5

Toilet: 0 / 5

Space: 2 / 5

Seating: 4 / 5

Floor: 3 / 5

Other floors: 0 / 5

 

Overall: 18 / 35
