Ireland’s rules and regulations on
accessibility and inclusivity.

Although Irelands rules and regulations regarding wheelchair accessibility and disabled bathrooms
and general inclusivity are mostly policy based,(for example it is at the discretion of the owner of.
Pub or restaurant whether or not to build a disabled bathroom or putting in a lift to a second floor
dining area) despite that the European Union do have certain laws around who is entitled to
access the disabled bathroom. People often mistake the disabled bathroom for “the wheelchair
bathroom” This confusion is generally caused by this symbol.

This is currently the
universal symbol for
people with any kind of
disability.♿

This is on every sign for disabled parking,disabled bathrooms,automatic doors for assisting people who have
difficulty opening them manually. This is why you hear so many stories of people giving out to someone
because they aren’t in a wheelchair and they’ve parked in a disabled spot,only for the angry person to discover
that this person has a disabled badge which means they are entitled to the spot regardless of their disability.
Or someone verbally abused for using the elevator even though they aren’t in a wheelchair but again the
ignorance is realized when that person limps out of the elevator or uses his cane to navigate his way out.
This idea that disabled=wheelchair causes mass confusion and is the cause for so much controversy and adds
so much more pressure on people within the disabled community. As if it wasn’t stressful enough that this
person has struggled to navigate through Dublin city center on cobbled streets,dented paths,steep ramps,no
disabled bathroom within a kilometer. Now they have to take time out of there day to explain or even prove
their disability to this person who is just assuming they are some menace taking advantage of these facilities
for the craic. We desperately need a new symbol for the sake of the disabled community not just in Ireland but
world wide! Invisible disabilities are just as real as visible ones!
According to the European Commission the European accessibility act will
“Persons with disabilities and elderly people will benefit from:
• more accessible products and services in the market
• accessible products and services at more competitive prices
• fewer barriers when accessing education and the open labour market
• more jobs available where accessibility expertise is needed”
While these changes are important and this is good news there is nothing about making places more accessible
or even remotely easier for people to commute. What is the point of more jobs being available if a wheelchair
user is late for the interview because the 1 wheelchair space on the bus is full? Or the wheelchair user forgot to
ring the dart service to ask for assistance 48 hours in advance? Or a taxi can’t or won’t take them because the
wheelchair is to big? We need our community to keep campaigning! Keep signing petitions! and keep spreading
Awareness!
